---
title: AMA with Piero
subtitle: Creator of Logger & the WildBeast bot framework
guest: Piero AKA James Bond#0007
date: 2019-10-31 06:40:38 -0400
permalink: /ama-with-Piero
summary: Piero is the creator and maintainer of Logger#6088 (a good logging bot). He is also a developer of the WildBeast bot framework, which powers the 70k+ server discord bot WildBot. Besides slamming his face on my keyboard to make logger, he also moderates the MaxBox, Skymin, and the wildbot's discord servers. He's dealt with some pretty crazy targeted and disgusting raids in both the Skymin and MaxBox discord servers, and has picked up some unique methods to handle these threats.

---

---

### AMA Questions

He's dealt with some pretty crazy targeted and disgusting raids in both the Skymin and MaxBox discord servers, and has picked up some unique methods to handle these threats.
Would you be able to go over some of your "methods" for dealing with them?

>Sure. This primarily has occurred in MaxBox's server because of his reputation (lots of crappy people attacking him). When I started as a moderator, we only had Dyno for moderation and anti-raid (:FeelsYikesMan:). Vortex did the job for awhile, but people began to be more innovative in switching to different channels with their botnet, spamming zalgo client and bot crasher symbols, innundating any modbot and leaving before a punishment could occur, changing characters in words to avoid automod, and more. 
A new moderator and myself developed a custom solution for the server named Swordfish, which was comparable to Vortex but on steroids. The antiraid triggered easier than Vortex and on more conditions. It would autolock channels (record all permissions, revoke send messages + reactions to all roles not having certain permissions and automatically revert back upon the raid ending). It knew the invites people were using to spam join and would revoke them. It had an automatic bad word list it would fetch and delete upon seeing in chat. My favorite has to be it using an algorithm called Levenshtein distance where it would delete words similar to a banned word. If someone said the N-word and replaced most characters with numbers, for instance, it would figure this out and delete it. 
After the often raids slowed down, we opened it up to the public and it grew to about 900 servers before we chopped it because it was so outdated (using 3 year old discord library now dead). Nowadays, we use Aperture, which is a rowboat clone, to detect raids and deal with problematic users. It's not perfect, but it gets the job done.

---

How extensive is your coding knowledge and besides bashing your head on your keyboard what do you do in your spare time?

>I dabble with anything I can get my hands on (Golang, Haskell, Lua). I'm a freshman in college right now so I'm just getting started with the computation theory courses. I used Python extensively last summer while interning at Capital One and I'm confident in my abilities with NodeJS, Python, and Java.

---

What is Wildbot and what does it do? Is it a public bot or private?

>WildBot is an instance of the WildBeast framework that the rest of TheSharks and I (github team) work on. It got big because it was one of the first do everything bots, but nowadays, there exists other bots that do more than WildBot and better than it. Otherwise, it has music, chat tools, porn, and role management. We plan on making it more attractive with an update on the horizon.

---

What would you say is the biggest benefit brought to you through your interactions on Discord and why?

>Meeting a whole bunch of people who are as quirky and interested in coding as me. Besides that, I guess making some passive income from Logger?

---

why did you create Logger#6088

>Because back when we made version one of it in the summer of 2017, logging bots were limited and they sucked. Logger aims to be a Logging bot through and through, none of the bs that do-everything bots carry. From this idea, I made the bot into one that is actually useful, super customizable, info heavy, and easy to use with a web dashboard.

---

How did you find yourself on the Wildbot team?

>Back when I made my Discord account, the only big music bot out there was Aethex. As many of us somewhat oldies can attest, Aethex was really shitty. Bad uptime, laggy unavailable music, and clunky commands are the general gist of it being bad. I found WildBot and it had smooth, awesome music and was open source. I joined the WildBot support discord to ask some questions and ended up staying. Through my interest in the bot and potential as a dev, they took me up and I've been there ever since.

---

What's the worst raid/attack on a server you've dealt with?

>Some enemies of MaxBox got access to some nudes on his phone and were trying to frame him by making people think that he sent them to underaged fans (tf2, young children). They employed most of the methods I listed above in their attempts to dirty his image. Authorities ended up being involved and that was not fun. Oh yeah, can't forget the dead fetus and gore spam.

---

Where do you think you would be today if you didn't get into discord server moderation and bot development?

>Probably being useless and playing videogames all day every day. Honestly, it would not be too fun.

---

hi, how are you?

>I'm feeling pretty good right now. I have most of my homework done and I'm watching movies with a bowl of ramen.

---

Do you have any tips about growing a discord bot?

>Find something and do it really well. Make it ultra useful and very easy to use (web dashboard +100 brownie points). People will pick it up. Make sure it's unique or that it's a floor clearing idea.

---

What would you consider to be the bane of bot developers?

>Discord being mainly noncommunative with changes and things desperately needed by bot developers. Not being able to use custom statuses, custom new cloudflare endpoint ratelimit rules, not being able to use the search api, being nonconsistent

---

In the event of a breach, what would you consider the best course of action for a developer? (Such as just a token breach)

>Unfortunately if your token gets stolen, you really have no idea what happened while it was in someone elses hand. Best course of action is to do a complete check of your assets (database(s), server), revoke the token, ensure that the vector for attack is closed, and issue an apology.

---

Can you tell us about hosting costs for large bots?

>WildBot has three servers networked together - one for our ELK stack, and two for docker container orchestration. It's totally overkill and not necessary whatsoever. Probably up to $100 for WildBot, I'm not sure as they're not my servers. 
Logger consumes more resources than WildBot and runs on one server only. The server costs about $65 per month and has resources to spare for bot operations. I pay for no API access with Logger, but WildBot pays a little bit for YouTube API access.

---

If you could go back to the beginning of your discord career and change something you did or the way you did something- what would that thing(s) be and why?

>I honestly can't think of anything right now. I've had a pretty good run and I hope to continue it.

---

What's your favorite Discord bot?

>Vortex or Aperture. Vortex is stupidly easy to use but a bit slow because so many people use it. Aperture probably tops it at this point because of how customizable it is (for devs, absolutely unusuable for non computer people)