---
title: AMA with Kelwing
subtitle: Creator of Auttaja and GeekHub
guest: Kelwing#0001
date: 2019-10-09 06:40:38 -0400
permalink: /ama-with-Kelwing
summary: Kelwing is the Project Lead for the bot [Auttaja](https://auttaja.io/) and the owner of GeekHub, a large technology-related server.

---

---

### AMA Questions

When you were developing Auttaja initially did you expect the bot to get to the point where it is today

>No, I originally designed it to be a mod bot for one server that needed it. During early development, it wasn't even designed to support multiple servers. After a lot of pressure from a lot of server members, I ended up adding that functionality. Even at that point, I never expected to be at the point we're at now.

---

Throughout the course of your bot development history, what would you say was your biggest struggle along the way? Is it still an issue? If not, how did you get past it?

>The biggest struggle has been, and still is scalability. This is mostly caused by the stateful nature of Auttaja. We absolutely depend on keeping a constant state of all servers and users we see, which leads to a lot of problems with resource usage. We've taken strides to ensure we minimize that, but as we grow, it continues to be a problem. We do have something in the works right now, that we plan to open source, that will alleviate that for quite a while.

---

How does life change from a young adult to the early 20s?What stays the same? 

>I'd say the biggest thing is independence. The gap between you and your parents grows significantly during this time, and will continue to grow as you get even older. You realize that for the most part, you need to fend for yourself, and come up with your own solutions with any difficulties you encounter in life.

---

How have you seen discord evolve over your time as a community manager? Have you ever thought about expanding your community presence to the Internet beyond your server? 

>I've been using Discord since Oct 2015, managed a large community since Jul 2016. I think this is a very difficult question just due to the amount of time that has past. If I had to pick one very large thing that has changed, it would be the amount of community support for communities on the platform. When I first started working on communities and Auttaja, sites like Discord.me and discordbots were in their early infancy, and didn't have nearly as much traffic as they do today, so growth had to come somewhere else. I've seen many communities grow purely from using sites like those.
As far as expansion goes, I'd say probably not. Mostly due to time constraints. I work a demanding day job, so everything I do on Discord is done in my spare time.

---

What made you think you wanted to be a programmer, and a discord programmer at that? 

>I knew I wanted to do something involving computers since I was given my first computer at age 12. I dabbled in programming during my early teens, and took a few C++ classes in high school. So, I got a lot of opportunity to be exposed at a young age, and my mind was pretty much set there. 

As far as Discord programming is concerned, it was born out of need. The community I was active in at the time desperately needed a mod bot, and the owners at the time refused to use anything that wasn't born from the community. So combine my programming knowledge with a necessity, and boom.

---

What CompTIA Certifications would you recommend for Server management for the U.S. Military? Especially the army, where a lot of their systems are heavily outdated.

>I'm actually not familiar with the platform the military even runs on. I would guess Windows, but I could be very wrong there, and it could be some OS/2 or HP-UX system. I'm not sure I could make a good recommendation without knowing more about what they use.

---

What would be some tips or tricks you'd recommend for increasing a bots server count. Other than unique features what would be some methods you'd use to promote your bot?

>Honestly, this is a really hard one. I got my exposure by partnering with large communities that used my bot to promote it. Having those large communities as users was pure dumb luck. I've posted about it a few times on my Twitter, but the Discord bot listing sites are pretty much useless. Even when I'm on the front page of one of them, the amount of traffic I see from them vs traffic from people linking on Discord or Google is laughable

---

With your experience running large community servers in mind, what would you say is the most important quality for a server owner who wishes to grow and develop their own community?

>Activity. A community cannot grow without an active server owner. You need to be one of the, if not the most active member of the community. You should have a constant presence, and be very aware of the needs and wants of you community.

---

Do you still have my pillow?

>Oops I accidentally skipped over yours. Yes I do. Hmu this weekend :P

---

What's your favorite memory during your time on Discord?

>My first voice call with my now boyfriend. Should be pretty self explanatory :P

---

What was the first bot that you originally came up with?

>Aside from randomly hacked together bits of code that were me just experimenting with the API, Auttaja was my first real bot.

---

How much does it cost to keep your bot running each month? Does patreon cover the costs or is some out of pocket?

>Right now... it's around $280/mo. Patreon covers just over half of that, the rest is out of pocket. I'm currently working on a port of the bot from Python to Golang that should bring that down significantly.

---

What programming languages do you know? What's the best way to learn how to program? Are there any websites, books, or resources you can recommend for beginners?

>I know a lot of languages at a basic level, but the ones I could competently create a new program from scratch in would be: C/C++, Python, and Golang. Best way to learn to program varies greatly from person to person. For me, I learn best from interactive courses. Ones where you build something as you go. 
I really like https://exercism.io/. It walks you through learning programming languages using practical problems rather than tutorials.

---

Is there like a secret discord for owners [big community discord owners]

>Yes, there are a few actually. They're ENTIRELY community run, and are in no way affiliated with Discord themselves.

---

What are some of the most significant changes you've seen when it comes to AutoMods on Discord since you first started in that area?

>The biggest change that we had to deal with was not only moderating chat, but also moderating usernames and nicknames. There was a wave of spambots a while back that would join with discord invite links as their usernames, so checking for that and removing those users was sort of an emergency change we needed to implement.

---

What makes up the brunt of the monthly costs of the bot and what host do you use if you don't mind sharing?

>The brunt of the monthly cost is the state cache. Keeping a persistent cache of 45,000 servers and presence data for over 10 million user accounts is an insane amount of data. 

---

What would you consider an underrated feature of the bot?

>I always feel like our strike thresholds are the most underrated feature. Combining them with automod makes for a really powerful system.

---

Did you expect much criticism for what you made?

>I honestly expected significantly more criticism than I've actually received. Most people are more constructive and supportive than you'd expect. Most people offer suggestions over criticism.

---

Has being Kelwing#0001 the creator of Auttaja influenced you or changed your daily life?

>On occasion, yeah. I've been known to stay up until 4am battling some performance issue or database problem. We lost our database cluster at one point, and I was up until 4am restoring from our backups. We do stream backups, so every write is mirrored elsewhere, so in the event of catastrophic failure, we can return to the second it happened.

---

When it comes to security on Discord in the automod side of things, what do you consider the top needed features/tools for a public large community?

>I think being able to filter specific words/phrases/etc is the most important thing. Every community is different, and so most of the "one size fits all" automod systems can only go so far. Eventually you get into things that are specific to one or a group of communities you might serve.

---

If you could add a feature or two, what would you add to discord?

>Two things I'd add, and these are mostly API related things that would aid in bot development. 1. The ability to subscribe to events as you need them. Right now, when you connect to the Discord websocket, you get a flood of everything your bot can see, which is less than optimal if you only need a subset of that data. 2. I would change the update events so they are diffs of the changes, rather than just a representation of the new version of whatever object changed.


---

Whats the biggest guild using your bot? Just member size no name

>Last I checked, we had one with 270,000 members.

---

Do you ever take time to look at other "competitors" and see what they do differently? You mentioned this is mostly spare time so I'm just curious if you "look outside the box" regularly if at all

>I actually try to avoid looking at competitors. One of the main draws people have expressed is the fact that we do things differently. We do them our own way, and the solutions are based on needs and wants of our users, rather than trying to copy some cool feature someone else added.