---
title: Maybe the game is rigged
---

A few days ago, I was playing Sudoku with a friend. I was visiting her as she had recently injured her leg. As she had spent the entire day alone, she was glad to have me as a guest as she had some company. After a bit of chit-chat and usual exchanges of pleasantries, she suggested we started playing Sudoku on her phone. I hadn't played Sudoku for a while and have never played Sudoku really competitively, so I took on the opportunity to enjoy the game teaming up with someone. 

The game had four levels: easy, medium, difficult and expert. Another specialty about the game was that there was an option for game to show if we had put any number incorrectly. This is actually akin to cheating because it is atleast more than 10x more difficult, if you don't what you did wrong. For the first three types of level, we didn't require any help. When we figured out a number which matched the pattern, we filled it up. So, we aced the easy, medium and difficult levels. The Expert level was a challenge even for both of us. I wanted to get challenged a bit more so, I asked to opt out of the wrong answer option as well. She was hesitant but then acquised. 

We struggled but eventually starting putting out pieces. And then came the deadend. It started out with being a really wishy washy feeling of if, one more number fits, then everything else would make sense. It easily converted itself to one of the distracting times, when suddenly the color of the paint on the wall becomes more exciting and full of life than the current jigsaw of a task at our hand. There were moments when I thought I understood the way to get out of this, only to be disappointed again. I assumed numbers/ hypothesis for example, if this number can have 2 0r 5 and I guess if I go with 2, then what. Now, the way to proceed is that if we hit the roadblock then it means that the other number is the correct answer. But what if both the numbers were wrong. I should have realised that the game was rigged. Someone of us, did a mistake. the sudoku is now transformed to change. 
